## v4.0.0 (2019-XX-YY)
------------------------

This update brings many new features to all the packages, with some necessary breaking changes, several fixes to the readers and writers, and performance improvements across the board.

### BREAKING CHANGES

#### `@graphy/core.data.factory`  **AFFECTS ALL PACKAGES**
 - `Term#equals()` and `Quad#equals()` now return `false` for falsy `other` arguments instead of throwing an Error per [RDFJS discussion](https://github.com/rdfjs/data-model-spec/issues/132).
 - IRI sanitization was previously performed on NamedNodes during uptake and output using `uri-js` from npm. This had some issues as it would sometimes modify IRIs to make them valid URIs. The sanitization process has been replaced with a simple Unicode character escaping for invalid sequences such as serializing spaces in IRIs as `'\u0020'`.

#### `@graphy/content.*.read`
 - Validation is now enabled by default. The `.validate` option to [ReadConfig](https://graphy.link/content.textual#config_read) has been deprecated. A new `.relax` option has been added which will allow users to bypass validation for faster reads.
 - The `.maxStringLength` option to [ReadConfig](https://graphy.link/content.textual#config_read) is now set to `Infinity` by default.

#### `@graphy/content.*.write`
 - The `.tokens.graph` option to [WriteConfig](https://graphy.link/content.textual#config_write) has been moved to `.style.graphKeyword`.
 - The previously undocumented `.collections` option to [WriteConfig](https://graphy.link/content.textual#config_write) has been renamed to `.lists` and is now officially supported.

#### `@graphy/util.dataset.tree` => `@graphy/memory.dataset.fast`
 - This package has been renamed to better align in with new similar packages in upcoming minor releases. Requires to the old package will still work in this release but will issue a deprecation warning.


#### CLI (Command-Line Interface)
 - All commands have been changed:
   - ~~`content.nt.read`~~ --> `read -c nt`
   - ~~`content.nq.read`~~ --> `read -c nq`
   - ~~`content.ttl.read`~~ --> `read -c ttl`
   - ~~`content.trig.read`~~ --> `read -c trig`
   - ~~`content.nt.write`~~ --> `write -c nt`
   - ~~`content.nq.write`~~ --> `write -c nq`
   - ~~`content.ttl.write`~~ --> `write -c ttl`
   - ~~`content.trig.write`~~ --> `write -c trig`
   - ~~`util.dataset.tree`~~ --> `tree`, `union`, `diff`, `minus`, `intersect`, `equals`, `contains` or `disjoint`


### Added Features

#### New packages
The following packages are content *scribers*, for serializing RDF fast. They are essentially the high-performance versions of the content writers with less features.
 - `@graphy/content.nt.scribe`
 - `@graphy/content.nq.scribe`
 - `@graphy/content.ttl.scribe`
 - `@graphy/content.trig.scribe`

#### New WritableDataEvents
[WritableDataEvents](#https://graphy.link/content.textual#interface_writable-data-event) are rich object structures that are capable of passing entire trees of RDF data or miscellaneous serialization directives such as prefix statements, comments, etc., to serializers. The following types were added:
 - `'c3r'` and `'c4r'` -- the 'strict-mode' variant of [concise triples and concise quads hashes (`'c3'` and `'c4'`)](https://graphy.link/concise#hash_c4), mostly used internally for passing data quickly between packages and for serializing with less safety check overhead.
 - `'comment'` and `'newlines'` -- added as a standlone data event types to allow for serializing comments/newlines to *scribers* whereas previously with the writers you could simply include factory directives inline the 	`'c3'` and `'c4'` events.

#### `@graphy/content.*.write`
 - Added more control over stylized output via the `.style` config option, which includes indentation control, keyword selection, optional block omission, and custom list serialization.
 - The `data` argument to `Writer#write(data)` now accepts plain Quads (scribers also accept plain Quads).
 - Added `Writer#import()` method for compatibility with [@RDFJS/Sink](http://rdf.js.org/stream-spec/#sink-interface).

#### `@graphy/content.*.read`
 - Added support for `.dataFactory` option to [ReadConfig](https://graphy.link/content.textual#config_read-no-input) for compatibility with [@RDFJS/ConstructorOptions](http://rdf.js.org/stream-spec/#constructoroptions-interface).

#### `@graphy/core.data.factory`
 - `factory.comment()` -- added `.width` option to support word-wrapped comments.
 - Specialized RDF Literal classes distinguish between simple, languaged, and datatyped literals with `.isSimple`, `.isLanguaged` and `.isDatatyped` prototype properties.
 - Added support for the [@RDFJS/Variable term type](http://rdf.js.org/data-model-spec/#variable-interface) via `factory.variable()`.


#### CLI (Command-Line Interface)
Many new features have been added to the CLI.
 - Added the `'/'` character to alias the internal pipe delimiter for a much cleaner syntax (`--pipe` is still supported).
 - **New Commands:**
   - `skip`, `head`, and `tail` for limiting the size of data that goes thru.
   - `filter` allows for [filtering quads via arbitrary constraints](https://graphy.link/quad-filter-expressions).
   - `transform` allows for applying quick and concise JavaScript functions from the CLI to modify Quads on-the-fly as they pass thru.
   - `concat` and `merge` reduce multiple input streams into a single output stream.
   - `read`, `write`, and `scribe` to replace package name commands.
   - `tree`, `union`, `diff`, `minus`, `intersect`, `equals`, `contains` and `disjoint` to replace dataset commands (all the latter of which canoncialize inputs by default).
