## v4.2.0 (2020-04-20)
------------------------

This update adds **experimental** multithreaded reading for N-Triples and N-Quads, called 'Scanners': `@graphy/content.nt.scan` and `@graphy/content.nq.scan`. These are deserializers that take a single input stream and read it across multiple workers in parallel, allowing users to take advantage of multiprocessor systems.

> `@graphy/content.nt.scan` and `@graphy/content.nq.scan` are experimental; they have limited test case coverage in node.js and have not been tested in the browser.

**How it works:**
The main thread populates sections of a preallocated `SharedArrayBuffer` with chunks copied from the input stream data and allows workers to claim each slot on a first-come-first-serve basis (synchronized using `Atomics`). For each chunk of input data, the main thread handles reading the leading and trailing fragments that belong to RDF statements spanning across chunk boundaries. Communication about data exchange is done mostly through unidirectional byte indicators on `SharedArrayBuffer`, with occassional help and synchronization from `Atomics` when necessary. Error handling and gathering of results is done using message passing, i.e., `postMessage`, which accepts transferable objects when passing large amounts of data.

**How its used:**
Similar to map/reduce, you must provide some code that will be run on each thread to create the reader instance and send updates or submit the final result(s) back to the main thread. Set the `.run` property on the config object passed to the constructor, it will be `eval`'d on both the main thread and each of the workers (`eval` is necessary to allow access to global context, such as `require`, while providing consistent behavior across node.js and browser). Tasks are therefore intended only for running trusted code. See [scan verb documentation](https://graphy.link/content.textual#verb_scribe) for more information.


### 🍭 Features

#### `@graphy/content.nt.scan` and `@graphy/content.nq.scan`
 - Introduced the [scan verb](https://graphy.link/content.textual#verb_scribe) for N-Triples and N-Quads.

#### CLI
 - Added the [`scan` command](https://graphy.link/cli#command_scan), which currently only supports internal piping to limited versions of the `count` and `scribe` commands.
 - Added [`--show-stack-trace` option](https://graphy.link/cli#options).
 - Added [`example`, `help` and `version` command aliases](https://graphy.link/cli#command_examples).


### ⚡︎ Performance

#### `@graphy/content.*.read`, `@graphy/content.*.write` and `@graphy/content.*.scribe`
 - Microtask optimizations.


### 🔧 Fixes

#### Dependencies
 - Dependency upgrades that affect CLI.
